---
title: Welcome blog post
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: true
---
# Welcome to our blog!

Here are some tips for getting out into the woods with your little one: 
Invest in a decent flask for tea or coffee to keep you going. Pack plenty of snacks for energy/bribes.
Consider getting yourself some waterproof trousers. Even if it's not raining, it's nice to be able to kneel or sit on the ground or a log to get down on your child's level and notice the details that so fascinates them. You might feel like a dork, but trust me, your child really won't care.
In the same vein, make sure you personally are wrapped up warm and ready for all weathers. As parents we tend to focus on our child and sometimes forget to think about our own wellbeing. We might throw some flip flops on as we leave the house, but that ain't gonna fly when your little one wants to scramble down a bank or walk along a muddy path. Pack you adventure bag and have your kit ready the night before so that you don't forget anything during the inevitable struggle to put shoes on (what is it about putting their shoes on?) or go for a wee (I've lost count of how many arguments we've had about going for a wee). 
If your child complains about leaving the house, persevere. They often don't like abrupt changes of activity, because they can't imagine liking the new activity better than the one they're doing at the moment. But in my experience as soon as you've managed to get outside (maybe you've just picked them and their shoes up and carried them out screaming) they are instantly distracted by the change, and forget all about their previous objections.
Be led by them. Allow their imagination and interests to set the tone of the outing. Perhaps they're going through a phase of picking up stones from a gravel path, and examining them all individually (yes darling, another stone! Well done!) or maybe they want to walk along the same log ten times until they've mastered it. Sometimes we adults can get a bit bored by this, but repetition is really important to their learning process. Try to make a game out of it, eg let's count the stones and sing a little song about them, or let's pretend that this log is lying across some water, and mummy is a crocodile waiting to snap! 
If they stop and notice a tiny detail that you might otherwise have missed, stop and take it in. They can teach us so much! 
If you do want to try and actually walk a bit further with them, you might need to come up with ways to get them moving in the right direction. For example, following a trail around a nature reserve, there might be coloured arrows to follow. Make a game of who can spot the next arrow, give the child ownership over that. Or play a game of hide and seek where you run ahead and hide behind the next tree along the path. If all else fails, resort to bribery with the snacks you've brought, reasoning that they've probably burned off plenty of energy along the way. 
